Xin Huang 	xyh1
Leo Meister	lpm2
COMP 321 Project 4: Unix Shell
3/12/15

DESCRIPTION

We designed a shell with limited functionality compared to shells like bash and csh. It is capable of running four built-in commands (quit, bg, fg, and jobs), as well as executable files. The command "quit" exits out of the shell, "bg" runs a given stopped command in the background, "fg" runs a given background or stopped command in the foreground, and jobs lists the jobs currently running. 

The shell will execute an executable file as long as the path to the executable is provided as the first argument on the command line or the path to the executable is on the search path (PATH environment variable). Jobs will be run in the background if the command ends with "&"

Examples:

//This will execute assuming the echo executable is in the bin directory
tsh> /bin/echo your string here

or

//This will execute assuming /bin/echo is in the PATH environment variable
tsh> echo your string here

//This will run "foo" in the background
tsh> ./foo &


Typing CTRL-z will suspend the job running in the foreground, and typing CTRL-c will terminate any job running in the foreground. If any job is stopped or terminated by a signal, a message will display with the job id, process id, and command line arguments of that job.

DESIGN

For the built-in commands of our shell, we used strcmp to check whether the
first argument given was any of the 4 built in commands. If any of them
were matched, we would run the appropriate function (either listjobs, exit, or
do_bgfg). For do_bgfg, we had a few corner case error/invalid print statements 
to take care of, so we created a flag that gets set depending on whether the 
argument passed was a pid, jid, or invalid. This way we could print the appropriate message based on the second argument to bg and fg.

Our signal interrupt and stop handlers were pretty similar in design; we check to make sure the pid of the job we are stopping or terminating is valid. If it is valid, it forwards the signal to the appropriate foreground job, which then invokes the sig_chld handler. The child handler reaps terminated children, gets the status of terminated and stopped children, accordingly deletes terminated jobs, changes the state of the stopped children, and prints messages concerning uncaught signals.

We used initpath solely for verbose debugging statements, since we chose to use execvp when executing commands; execvp will search the PATH environment variable if the provided filename does not include a path. In eval, we made sure to block the SIGCHLD signal in the parent until after the job is added to the list so that the we don't try to delete a job until after it is added. In addition, we made sure to unblock SIGCHLD before the call to execvp.

Our waitfg function simply checks to see whether the input process id is the the id of the current foreground job. While it is, it sleeps; once that process terminates and is handled (removed from the list), the loop breaks and the shell resumes allowing input.

To handle the case where the user does not input anything to the shell apart from hitting enter, we check whether the first argument is null. If it is, we do not need to evaluate the input. The major difference between foreground and background jobs was the state we passed to the addjob function to add the job to the job list and the fact that we needed to wait for the foreground job to complete.

TESTING STRATEGY

Our testing strategy was largely manual as we visually compared the output of the traces for our tsh against the reference shell.
For simple tests, we ran tsh and tshref through all the provided trace files and made sure that the output of our tsh matched the output of the provided tshref (apart from process ids).

We also ran the provided functions mystop, myspin, myint, and mysplit to make sure they produced the same output as the reference shell. Then we tested the executables manually in our tsh to make sure they were working; we found that the behavior varied in our tsh when using the driver as compared to running and testing the tsh because of bugs in our signal handlers. We then tested other commands such as ls, ps, and echo - commands we expected to be on the search path - and compared the output of our tsh with the reference shell.

After, we extensively tested the built in functions we wrote, especially "bg" and "fg," since "quit" and "jobs" was not as complex. We ran bg and fg without arguments and also with invalid pid / jid numbers and invalid string
arguments, ensuring that we matched the reference invalid messages.

We also ran the provided executables in our tsh in both the foreground and background and stopped them with keyboard interrupts and stops to first make sure they would terminate and quit properly. Then we restarted the programs in all combinations of the background and foreground process. Doing so, we were confident that our built-in functions were working properly, along with our error messages and signal interrupts.

We also needed to test what would happen if we gave our shell an empty path, so we ran "env PATH= ./tsh", finding that it worked to spec; it would take the current directory as the path and was able to run programs in the current directory with only the name of the executable provided. In addition, we tested commands like echo that were on our path before, and the "Command not found" message displayed as appropriate.

Finally, we made a couple of extra trace files to test a wide array of combinations of built-in commands, signals, and executables.
